# EzDialogue Plugin for Godot

EzDialogue is a Dialogue extension for Godot Game Engine.

The Plugin provides ways to create and organize in-game dialogues by providing customized dialogue management tab in Godot Engine. Use EzDialogue's own scripting language to write dialogues, control narrative branches, and trigger custom in-game functions.

## Requirement

EzDialogue plugin has only been tested with Godot v4.0+

## Installation

1. Copy the directory `./addon/ez-dialogue` to your Godot Project resource path `res://addon/`
2. Open `Project > Project Settings...`, then goto  `Plugins` tab
3. Under `Installed Plugins`, there should already be `DeveloperEzra's Dialogue Manager` already. Click to check `Enable` under status column for this plugin.
4. There should be `EzDialogue` tab in your Editor now.

## Writing Dialogue

To begin writing your dialogue, go to `EzDialogue` tab.

### Dialogue Node
Create a dialogue node by click on `+` on the top left corner of the dialogue editor window.

Once you select the node (the created Dialogue Node should be alrady selected), the right panel should enable where you can edit the Dialogue Node name and the content of the node.

### Writing Content
#### Dialogue Name
The name of a dialogue should be unique within the file (case-INsensitive). Dialogue Node's name is how you instruct the flow between different nodes.

By `default`, You should name the starting node `Start`.

#### Plain Text
You can simply start writing your plain text dialogue.

### How to Load Dialogue in Game

This section is an instruction on how you can load and use the dialogue resource created from `EzDialogue` editor tab.

Here are basic concepts in how the dialogue handler node works.
1. In the Scene find and add `EzDialogue` Node.
2. In the Script of your game logic, load JSON resource containing the desired Dialogue information (generated by EzDialogue Editor)
3. Call `start_dialogue(dialogue: JSON, state: Dictionary, starting_node = "start")` function of `EzDialogue` node.
4. Listen signals from `EzDialogue` named `dialogue_generated` for dialogue to display, and `custom_signal_received` for when the dialogue reaches a line with your custom signal.
5. If the Dialogue response contains choices property, select the index of the choice item you want to proceed with.
6. Call `next(choice_index: int)` from EzDialogue Node, ommitting `choice_index` if no choice is expected. go to step 4 and repeat.
7. If the signal ``
